
# Jaclyn Schwartz Project Proposal

## **Justification.**
Scopelliti et al., 2015 explored how self-promotion (i.e., communicating one’s positive traits) can lead to contradicting emotional perspectives. The self-promotor may perceive that the recipient feels more positive emotions and less negative emotions about the promoter’s behavior than the recipient’s true emotional reaction. This paper stood out to me mainly because my research lies in the emotional experience of depressed and at-risk depressed individuals. It seems clear that the authors’ theory of self-promotion would be grounded in heathy populations, but seems to starkly contrast how depressed individuals perceive themselves and emotional responses of others. For instance, the experiment’s results show that self-promoters and recipients do indeed differ on emotions they report, such that self-promoters overestimate the extent to which their recipients feel happy and proud of them and underestimated the extent to which the recipients felt annoyed. However, in depression, I would expect first, that individuals may be less readily able to provide self-promoting information, and if they do, they would likely underestimate the extent to which their recipients feel positively.  Although the experiment in this paper seems to have been a simple survey, I have never conducted an MTurk study, and am eager to take the opportunity to start with this replication. 
## **Stimuli and Procedures.**
Participants will complete a short survey on Amazon Mechanical Turk. Participants are randomly assigned to one of two conditions: the self-promotion condition and the recipient-of-self-promotion condition. Participants in the self-promotion condition are asked, “Can you describe a situation in which you have bragged to someone else about something? Please be as detailed as possible.” They are then asked to rate “how you think the person you bragged to has felt in that situation” on a scale from 1 – 7 (*1=not at all to 7=very much*) for seven predefined discrete emotions (pride, happiness, annoyance, feeling inferior, jealousy, upset, anger). Participants in the recipient condition are asked, “Can you describe a situation in which someone has bragged to you about something? Please be as detailed as possible.” They are then asked to rate “how you felt in the situation you just described” on a scale from 1 – 7 (*1=not at all to 7=very much*) for the same seven discrete emotions. This experiment is thus a 2 (reporter: self-promoter vs. recipient) x 2 (emotions: emotions experienced by self vs. predicted emotions) mixed design. The topics of self-promotion are then categorized as in the previous experiment of this paper by 2 research assistants (RAs). The 2 RAs independently categorized into predefined categories of (a) achievements; (b) individual traits and skills; (c) money, possessions, power, and status; (d) family and relationships; and (e) luck. 
As expected, the main finding was an interaction of condition and emotion, such that self-promoters overestimated the degree to which recipients felt positively (happy and proud) for them and underestimated the degree to which recipients felt negatively (annoyed). The proposed project will therefore aim to replicate this effect.
## **Challenges.**
I foresee two challenges moving forward with this replication. The study requires a minimum of 75 participants per condition, which would total 150 participants. I will want to make sure that I recruit enough in case of potential exclusion (if, for example, people report not having every bragged). The other challenge is finding 2 RAs with some spare time to code around 150 descriptions. After discussing this challenge with the course instructors, I will be one of the blinded coders and I have sent an announcement to the class to recruit another one. If I cannot find another coder, I will code them all, and again be blinded to condition. It will be a limitation that I am the person conducting the replication as well as coding. However, this part of the experiment is not crucial to the authors’ primary finding

Scopelliti, I., Loewenstein, G., & Vosgerau, J. (2015). You Call It “Self-Exuberance”; I Call It “Bragging”: Miscalibrated Predictions of Emotional Responses to Self-Promotion. Psychological Science, 1–12. https://doi.org/10.1177/0956797615573516
